welcome to my kitchen I'm Claire I'm 93
years old and today we are making Mir
from the depression
[Music]
today we're making a 3-course depression
now this is a very rare for the
depression left once in a while we get a
break Sunday a little special cuz we'll
have nice to eat with our children and
we have to have the lentils because
they're not expensive and they're
nourishing and they're good for you well
hold on lentils in here cuz we're gonna
make a lot of carrot left over for
another day put them all inside and
we'll put water in here I'm gonna make
what rice after the lentils are cooking
sometimes it was pasta sometime with
rice say I liked it better with her rice
but taking a while to cook so we'll just
forget about it for a while we had a
stove that we would all sit around her
to keep warm the front of us would get
water the back would freeze then we turn
around we turn our chairs around there
those were the good old days before we
had a radio we would well we'd go up in
my aunt's house and they used to get
these romances books that's some days to
pass around and they'd buy 2/3 of them
and then we'd all sit around listen to
the story that was our entertainment
my aunt usually did the reading she was
a good reader and just about it was very
cold and very to go to her house we had
to dress up real warm and we gets there
she'd have something to drink something
warm and we'd be real happy that would
that made the day the water exactly is
your dry it up they need a little more
cooking so we're gonna put a little more
hot water it now when this boils
in the rice but a cup of rice lentils
are ready they're cooked so now we put
it in the rice and make that cook until
the rice is cooked and they're done
nothing in here bugs or anything there's
nothing in there there's a bugs or
anything because we got to see if the
rice is okay it's okay
Marie water will evaporate we'll put the
rice also wait till it boils and I'll
throw in the rice gonna have enough rice
for me now it's boiling so let's go in
the race gonna be a big pot of rice a
cup of forever rice
with the cover on and let that boil
until it cooks and we'll have to wait a
while
oh what a make the steaks will have
steaks with the rice not together but
eat them together this is a recipe my
mother used to make special occasions
goes very good with the lentil soup and
then you have a piece of meat and
gelatin you're all set for a nice meal
take some olive oil put it in the dish
and softening it so I could get the
juice out of it some lemon put it in
with the olive oil
we've both halves of the lemon and the
olive oil mix it up with the olive oil
looks like it's almost done so I shut
off the gas and let it simmer down by
itself it's a cover on him wait it'll be
fine
I put some black of breath now take the
meat snatcher eat it with some lemon
juice and oil okay this is ready to fry
put olive oil in the frying pan turn on
the heat now I'm going to fry the meat
now we frighten me to Suzette's try to
put it in here in this sauce and lemon
juice and that that'll be done if we
ever get there
because very expensive and Ritter for us
so it was a big treat one we had a meat
was very soon not thick at all you
didn't know what six months when we were
sick we'd seen like meat with the lemon
juice so we sometimes we faked being
sick so we'd get some lemon juice that
happened many times my mother call it
ashes ah she's okay nothing's wrong with
her
it's helpful so we'd have to get out of
bed live a normal life that's how bad
the Depression was isn't it out of the
pan putting it in the lemon juice
mixture on the kids long at all you miss
definitely delicious me then marinate
for a while and that's ready to eat
the last thing when you would make to
sell it and then your meal is ready to
eat
I like to just use my hand but sometimes
I have to use a knife you use a lot of
olive oil but it's good for you we add
salt and pepper to the cellar lemon
juice we use the lemon from before too
for the salad I like to add a little bit
of oregano in my salad you don't have to
if you don't like oregano just salt
pepper and oil it's enough then you mix
it with your hands that's the best way
now the cellar is ready the meat is
ready and our rice and lentil is ready
so it's time to eat man's meal is
complete without bread so here goes the
bread that but we made a poor man's
piece lentils and rice meat with lemon
juice and tagging bread and you're all
set thank you for listening
[Music]
you